Hi, everyone.
I'm Alex Tinkler
and today on Hero Strive,
powered by Help for Heroes.
We're going to be doing
a cardio based fitness session.
You won't need any equipment for this.
Just plenty of room to move about.
Okay, let's get started
and let's strive together.
Okay, everybody start with the warm up.
So all I want you to do
is start is just a nice light
march on the spot.
We're just going to do this
for about 30 seconds, alright?
So as you start and just nice
light on the feet,
just start to loosen through the arms,
We're just going
to gradually start to build
that heart rate up
nice and steady.
Going to do this for 15 more seconds.
Starting to lift those knees
that little bit higher
now. Next move,
we're going to take it into a very light jog.
Here we go nice and light on the feet,
slightly, kicking the legs up.
Now, if you don't want a jog,
if this is going to be too much for you today,
I just want you to stick with that march.
But lift those knees
just a little bit higher and start
to feel the intensity
otherwise you’re with me
nice and light.
Keep those arms nice and loose again,
building that heart rate up,
just that little bit more
looking good guys, 10 seconds
and bring it down nice and steady.
Okay, very, very, very quick stretch.
Starting off, feet slightly apart.
I just want you to take the arm
up and over,
start to stretch through the upper body.
Now, this is only a warm up,
so you only going to hold this
for a few seconds.
Changing sides.
Lengthening through the upper body,
through the core
and bring it down from there.
We're just going to quickly
take it in to the quads.
Few seconds.
If you need to hold onto something,
you can
and switch sides.
Again,
a few more seconds,
go to right.
Very, very last one.
We're going to be up on our feet today.
So I just want you to take it
through the calf.
So back foot flat
pointing forward
you just going to push
into the front leg,
feel that stretch for a few more seconds
and switch sides
and relax there.
Right, shake it out.
We're ready to go in the main session.
Okay, guys,
so into the main session now
we're going to go in 20 seconds, okay.
I'm going to start
by demonstrating the first move.
So that's going to be a jumping Jack.
So from here, feet coming out.
Hands coming above your head.
That's the jumping Jack, there.
If you don’t want to jump with us today,
I just want you to take it to a side step, alright.
Still using those arms.
We're going in five,
four, three, two, one.
Here we go. Jumping Jack.
So feet wide, soft in the knees,
hands above the head.
That's option one there,
option two, If you need it,
I'm going to take it down,
still putting the same energy
through the arms,
but feet
are going side to side
and we're taking out all that impact.
You got ten more seconds here.
Then we're going to go into a 30 seconds rest.
Keep it there.
Three, two, one..
easy, 30 seconds rest.
Try and keep moving,
shake it off.
Your next move, we're calling it a box step.
So all you going to do,
stepping forward with the feet.
Forward, forward, followed by back, back.
You're going to take it nice and steady like that.
Alright, still resting.
You got ten more seconds of rest.
Just try and keep moving.
Big deep breath.
We're going into box step in
Five, four, three, two, one.
Here we go. Forward, forward, back, back.
So again we are soft through the knees,
nice and steady.
Now you can take this as fast
or as slow as you want to, alright.
I wanted sort of a nice, steady pace there,
if you want a bit more, you can speed it up
or you can slow it right down. Right.
This is your workout today.
So you take it to
whatever level you want to.
Five more seconds.
Five, four, three,
two, one.
30 seconds rest.
Well done.
Shake it off, guys.
Just try and keep moving and breathe.
Third exercise is going to be a squat
after this 30 seconds rest, right?
So when we're squatting feet apart,
you're going to bend through the knees
into that squat position.
Now, 10 seconds.
I want you to think about
sitting back in the hips
and keeping your chest up as you do this.
Alright. Lifting that head.
Here we go.
In three, two, one.
Let's go.
So the weight
should be back in the heels.
And you want to feel like
you're about to sit down on a chair
driving up through the heels
as you come up
and keeping that head
and chest lifted at all times.
Now, options for this.
As you can see,
I'm taking my hips to about knee level there.
Alright.
If you don’t want to go that far down today,
you can just take it into a little half squat.
Alright.
Entirely up to you.
Three, two, one.
And rest there. Well done.
Shake it out.
Okay, guys, your next move,
very similar to the warm up
that we did earlier.
You’re going to go into
to a high knee march, right
so driving the knees up
while we're on the spot like this,
bringing in the arms as well.
You've got that in 10 seconds.
Big deep breath.
Ready to go in.
Five, four, three, two, one.
Let's go.
So with this, I really want you to concentrate
on keeping the upper body up
and you using the core to drive the knee
nice and high,
bringing in those arms as well
to bring the upper body.
Good. Now, again,
doesn't have to come all the way up.
If you don't want it to,
you can keep it nice and steady
and just that little bit lower.
Otherwise we're driving
and that's going to drive
that heart rate as well.
Three, two, one.
Rest there, shake it off.
Guys, you got one more exercise, one more.
Take the lateral movement side to side.
So, feet are going to be apart.
And all you're going to do is you're going to step to the side
ever so slightly and then just tap that other foot.
So you open down like that, right?
Little bit of an aerobic movement.
We're going in five, four,
three, two, one.
Let's go.
So side to side, we call this a side touch.
Side touch, side touch.
Nice and easy, light on the feet.
Lifted through the chest.
Now again, we can progress and regress this as we need to.
So if you want a little bit more,
try and bend the knees
that little bit more.
It brings in a bit more of a squat element.
Otherwise just stay nice and lifted
nice and light.
You got a few more seconds here.
Three, two, one.
And relax, guys.
That's it. Five exercises done.
That's your taster session.
We're going to bring it down for a cool down.
Okay, guys.
So just cooling down
nice and steady here, right?
We're just going to start
with a very, very, very light march.
So your heart rate
will be a little bit elevated.
We don't want to completely stop straight away.
We want it to come down that little bit.
Okay. So we're just nice light march on the spot.
That's it. Not like the way we warmed up.
Or, the way we exercised there.
Just very, very nice lifts, small lifts,
nice and light on the feet.
Okay, guys, in a few seconds,
you're going to stretch out the quads.
Okay, so
stopping there again, grab onto something
if you need to.
Foot back,
I want you to bring those knees together
if you can.
And the more you push those hips forward,
the more you'll feel that stretch
down the quads.
Good.
Okay, release there and change legs.
So exactly the same again,
find that balance, knees together
hips forward,
stretching through the quads.
Nice guys.
and kick out of it there. Well done.
So moving down the body into the hamstring
So for your hamstring stretch,
what I want you to do
is take one foot out
slightly further forward than the other.
You just going to sit back in those hips,
rest your hands on your supporting leg there.
And on this you straightened leg here
you just feel that stretch
right up the back of your legs.
Hold it there for a few more seconds
and release, change legs.
So same again.
If you look at me from the side,
my hips are back
I’m relaxing under that supporting leg.
My other leg nice and straight
really feeling the stretch.
few more seconds there and release.
Alright, final one, guys.
We're just going to take it back into those calfs.
You did a few impact moves there,
so you want to take your back foot
flat to the floor, point it forward
and then push the weight
into that front leg there.
That's it. Just until you feel the stretch,
don't go too far,
but you still want to feel it working
right through the lower body.
You've got a few more seconds here,
then we're going to change sides.
Good and release there, change legs.
So same again.
Flat to the floor point it forward
and then just sink into that stretch.
Good.
Nearly there guys.
And release,
shake it off.
Brilliant guys.
Well done guys you've just completed
the taster cardio base session.
I hope you enjoyed it.
Why not go and try the beginner cardio session
or you can even do the stretch and strive session.
You can find them all on your dashboard.
Please leave us some feedback
and remember it's always better to
strive together.
Thank you.